Azure Application Gateway

* Layer 7 device/ work on Application layer
* supports http/https and websocket traffics 
* can be configured internal and internet facing
* end to end ssl encryption
* Web application firewall
	A web application firewall (WAF) is also provided as part of the application gateway WAF SKU.
	It provides protection to web applications from common web vulnerabilities and exploits. 
	Application Gateway can be configured as internet facing gateway, internal only gateway, or a combination of both.
* cookie based sesstion affinity
	Cookie-based session affinity - The cookie-based session affinity feature is useful when you want to keep a user session on the same back-end. 
	By using gateway-managed cookies, the Application Gateway is able to direct subsequent traffic from a user session to the same back-end for processing. 
	This feature is important in cases where session state is saved locally on the back-end server for a user session
* URL based content routing	
	URL-based content routing - This feature provides the capability to use different back-end servers for different traffic. 
	Traffic for a folder on the web server or for a CDN could be routed to a different back-end.
	 This capability reduces unneeded load on backends that don't serve specific content.

Application Gateway web application firewall

Application Gateway web application firewall (WAF) protects web applications from common vulnerabilities and exploits. 
This is done through rules that are defined based on the OWASP core rule sets 2.2.9 or 3.0. These rules can be disabled on a rule by rule basis. 
This article contains the current rules and rulesets offered.

SQL injection protection
Cross site scripting protection
Common Web Attacks Protection such as command injection, HTTP request smuggling, HTTP response splitting, and remote file inclusion attack
Protection against HTTP protocol violations
Protection against HTTP protocol anomalies such as missing host user-agent and accept headers
Prevention against bots, crawlers, and scanners
Detection of common application misconfigurations (i.e. Apache, IIS, etc.)


Application gateway types and modes:

SKU	A normal application gateway without a WAF supports Standard_Small, Standard_Medium, and Standard_Large sizes. With the introduction of a WAF, there are two additional SKUs, WAF_Medium and WAF_Large. A WAF is not supported on small application gateways.
Mode	This setting is the mode of the WAF. Allowed values are Detection and Prevention. When the WAF is set up in Detection mode, all threats are stored in a log file. In Prevention mode, events are still logged, but the attacker receives a 403 unauthorized response from the application gateway.

Application gateway monitoring

1. default monitoring
2. custom monitoring 

Multisite hosting
Requests for http://contoso.com are routed to ContosoServerPool, and http://fabrikam.com are routed to FabrikamServerPool.